In this section, we'll see how to define a project,
and in particular, what I call the project definition document,
the what, what is this project going to do?
Also, don't leave home without it,
never start a project without a project definition document.
Okay, now let's see why.
Here are some good reasons why we should define a project.
Before you develop a project plan,
you need to know a little about just what the project is,
and what the expected outcome of the project will deliver.
In fact, the project definition can and should be used as a go or no go guidance,
and what I mean by go is, the project seems reasonable,
let's proceed with the next step, or a no go,
does not seem reasonable, does not seem worthwhile,
and maybe I won't get a return in my investment.
The project definition process can be repeated and refined
to yield more information and a deeper understanding of just
what the project would entail.
So what if management says just start?
Well sometimes management is in a hurry, as we all know and experienced.
And just starting can be okay,
but I recommend that you have a project definition document certainly,
and you might want to take a couple of passes to refine it before you start.
Again, that will be a negotiating process with your management.
And lastly,
we're going to put all this material we've collected
in the project definition document.
Here are the items in general that we want to put into
the project definition document, and you may have heard the term a lot of,
who, what, and why, and those are some of the key areas,
such as who, you know, who are the users,
the customers, who's going to benefit from this system,
and who will have the greatest impact upon this for this system?
And the what of course, what is it that we're going to go do?
What are the goals or objectives, are we going to save money,
are we going to improve customer service,
and things like that.
And the why, what's the purpose of the project, why are we doing this project?
Also, we get into a little more detail, we're going to talk about value,
what's the business value maybe on revenue,
or reducing costs, ROI, Return On Investment,
and the scope.
How big is this, what does it cover, does it cover just manufacturing,
does it cover the entire organization,
does it cover your vendors and the supply chain for example.
And also, what we call the success criteria.
How do you know you're done,
how do you know that it actually met your customer's expectations,
and everyone is happy or not,
those should be part of the definition of the project as well.
And so, as a project manager, it is your job,
an important job,
to write your project definition document that would include all these elements.
Also, you should develop a template,
and incrementally improve that template with each new project.
Okay, there are two other Pluralsight courses of mine,
Best Practices of Requirements Gathering,
and Best Practices of Project Estimation,
and in there, I outline just what a project definition document is,
but it is important to outline it here again for you for you first timers,
so the next several slides we'll go over that. Okay, now let's look at a simple project definition creation process.